[Music]
richard craig welcome to the show good
to meet you dude i'm really excited to
have a conversation about something that
i've been trying to grapple with since
the pandemic kicked off
i'd train myself to be good at making
money but never really understanding
investing money and um
have watched the frustration build with
people that feel that they're working
inside of a broken system
and couldn't really understand like what
they were struggling with and now once
the pandemic hit and i began to see that
i needed to look more closely at
investing and all of that and what was
going to happen to the world financial
markets i started to be unpleasantly
startled by the things that i was
finding in terms of how it's structured
and as a person that i would say is the
future of finance and the way that
you're approaching things with new mirai
is absolutely fascinating
talk to me a little bit about what is
the structure of finance
well it's for sure broken i mean and
that's why there's so much energy and
new ideas around finance
i mean
one thing
i always ask people is like what are
what are young people doing and uh young
people today
you don't like meet someone out of
college who says um my idea is i'm gonna
start a new bank
or a new hedge fund even
and the reason is the barriers to entry
is so crazy uh and it's basically like
controlled by uh
by regulation and the regulation sounds
nice at first
because it's designed to protect people
it's designed theoretically you know we
all need protection um and then
it creates like this crazy class of like
um
compliance uh people are sort of
required to to do to do anything so i i
can't imagine what it would be like for
us sort of a 25 year old to apply for
like a banking license or something like
that but it's but the sad thing it's got
so so bad that it it's not even in
anyone's it's not even in anyone's
affordance to even have the idea
uh to do anything about it or try to
change it
and um
and that's where crypto
is powerful and things like numerai are
powerful
uh because it's it's somehow
making it possible for people to be
involved in the financial system
so i
have this thesis that i'm working on i'd
be very interested to hear what you
think so
i hear this idea that basically there's
all this tension happening between the
generations and the reason that the
tension is happening is because the old
guard is refusing to pass the baton to
the new guard but that doesn't strike me
as the way that human nature works and i
think that people cling to power for
every conceivable second you have to pry
it out of their cold dead fingers
and
i think that historically what happened
was youth and vigor like so much of the
economy was generated around being able
to
have a higher degree of stamina do
physically demanding jobs and therefore
the next generation was just able to
beat the old generation on that
and now as we go into an information
technology economy what you see
happening is it's easy to get ahead of
people because you understand the game
better and you can either do political
moves or you can just be more
knowledgeable and so that allows you to
hold on to power longer and so that
creates all this friction
between the generations and
now what we're seeing is what i call
[__] the man energy and so we're getting
this energy you saw people with um
occupy wall street
but then satoshi writes a white paper
and people that have been watching me
for the last like six months have heard
me say like this idea over and over but
this is really interesting to me so
satoshi writes this white paper and
creates
digital value out of thin air
and
people buy into this
and it creates this
decentralized democratized way to go
about
money and it's now starting to spill
over into other areas
but help me understand one
is it just regulation is that the only
problem that makes this [__] the man
energy so strong
and what is it about decentralization
that seems to be the cure to whatever
the ill is
yeah it does seem like the
a lot of the energy in crypto kind of
couldn't maybe wouldn't be there if
there were if it just were incredibly
easy to do normal business
um so if it was if it was extremely
common for young people to start new
banks or
or just people to ipo companies
even that's like kind of weirdly rare
if all that was a little bit more
possible then it would be hard to
imagine the world of crypto developing
with so much energy so i do think it's
definitely related to to regulation
um
it's also like a kind of
i think there's something going on with
like technological literacy as well
where you
there's the way that the finance people
uh talk about things like exchanges
um
it's like there's a lot of jargon
you
you you don't understand it um
you could never you could never build
something like this we're much we're
much smarter than you kind of thing when
actually it's like a hundred lines of
code uh to write uniswap um and you can
have digital assets being traded in a
decentralized way with no intermediaries
at all um and so there's something about
it where it's like
it's like
people are realizing
how bad it is and how uh easy to to
rebuild
um
the whole the whole financial
infrastructure is
just with uh just with new technologies
and that's the sad thing it's like when
you're growing up you kind of think i
remember growing up and watching the
internet entrepreneurs uh do amazing
things and i always thought well when i
grow up i'm gonna use the latest
technology to do amazing things as well
and somehow
it's it's a little bit gray area to be
using blockchain or even ai or kind of
any gray area from uh regulation from a
regulator yeah
you don't know um
what what the us is thinking about
uh cryptocurrencies
and uh
and any new systems that challenge old
systems and so it's like super okay to
build a social network uh in 2006
but
even if you can
write a new
stock exchange or a new bank or a new
type of hedge fund even if you can do it
and you have done it
uh
it's weirdly not
it's like not uh like acceptable yet you
don't know whether the government's
going to be like wow yeah we want all
this wealth to be captured by the united
states
you know
or are we just going to ban it and
people like me came here from i came
from south africa
to be you know try to be like uh
an elon musk of hedge funds or something
like that right and i thought this would
be the place would be definitely uh very
very pro technology but weird things
happening in the culture where it's it's
not and i think it's bad yeah uh tell me
more about that because so
i never expected to
do a single interview where the words um
culture war were put together like just
did not think that that would be
something i would ever get involved in
not the the thing i want to focus on
like i'm about the individual how do you
empower an individual person regardless
of where they were born color creed
nationality nothing to me none of that
[__] should matter it's like can you add
value to the world and if you can you
should be richly rewarded
and
now i find myself where the ideas seem
self-defeating to
the very people that are promulgating a
lot of the ideas so
what do you see as going wrong as
somebody who could look at america one
way when you were younger and now that
you're in the thick of it think ooh
maybe some of these ideas aren't as
useful as people are hoping what is
broken in the parsing of that data
it's something like a a desire for like
a static society they don't necessarily
want uh innovation in
because it leads to uneven outcomes
it's
it could be that but it's also just uh
if you're if you're
if you're older it's also annoying
uh change to have things change
um and uh
and have to learn a brand new technology
or something so i think there's
something like it's
and it's like it's fine if if if all
you're doing is um
kind of a joke that's why i think kind
of like nfts are interesting because
it's like
it's like a joke and and so it's like
it's like can't be illegal because it's
just art
and so the same people who i think so i
have a friend who um created an nft
project and he's like got a computer
science degree
really good at machine learning
and like
he decided to make
nfts um
out of college and it's like
on the one hand that's cool
sort of because it's like a protest art
thing maybe but on the other hand it's
also like is that the only thing that's
not banned
like if you can't sell shares in your in
your futuristic new bank or hedge fund
or something on the blockchain but you
can sell pictures of uh cats or
something so we just did a big nft drop
and dude the number of hours that i had
to spend with attorneys trying to figure
out like hey i want to make sure that i
can keep supporting this thing that the
sec is not going to come after me yeah
of course the first words out of their
mouth are like hey this is just a big
question mark yeah some of the attorneys
were like you shouldn't do it there's
questions and so our job is to cya and
so just you know don't and then other
people you know were far more thoughtful
in their guidance but it is so the thing
that winds me up about the system now
that i'm like really looking at it so
the old system worked very well for me
right i generated a tremendous amount of
wealth
so while i was doing that
i
it seemed like everything was working
perfectly but then once i had wealth and
i was like oh i want to do something
with this and then i needed to look at
the way the system is made for somebody
who isn't an entrepreneur which is the
vast majority of humanity
then i started to just be dizzyed and it
started with accredited
investor regulations and i was like wait
a second i am the dumbest investor of
all time
but now because i have over a million
dollars in liquid net worth i can invest
like it was so
strange to me that
the value of an idea or a company or
whatever is captured long before an ipo
and it's now captured by vcs or you know
who all accredited investors and so i
remember the day that i learned about it
i forget who told me but i was like why
aren't people riding in the streets over
this like this is crazy
and
that's crazy to me and so to your point
about nfts
how do we get how do we deal with that
what's like the path forward
well i mean it's it's so obviously bad
that and and one thing that's kind of
interesting i think is i i do think
there's quite a lot of research coming
out on
like um
marginalized groups let's say
traditionally considered marginalized
people are actually much more likely to
be involved in cryptocurrency
um
and uh any of these new things because
in some ways the other stuff is clearly
not available to them so you could have
two friends and um
uh you can't invest in each other's
companies
uh and it's like so crazy it's so crazy
and i actually didn't know about that
law either i thought america was like
clearly you know the place to be for
capitalism
and i met a young guy who was like 23 or
something and he wanted to invest in my
company
and he wasn't accredited and he was
super smart knew exactly what he was
doing but he couldn't
invest and he had to yeah kind of figure
out other ways to be involved um
but that's so
how could you make how could that any
anyone think that was a smart law to
pass
and it's very much in the in this
framing of like protection like how can
we protect people from themselves
um and that's the opposite of the
american value of like individual
responsibility and being able to pursue
whatever dreams you want to pursue going
back to my um question about like what
do we think is broken in the culture
that to me is a big part of this is i
love the energy of wanting to protect
people and making sure that they're safe
and you know that there's like in in
business number one rule is avoid a
mortality event right so you have to
learn to hedge your downside so i'm
going to try this thing and if it works
we've got upside but if it doesn't work
i've got a way to make sure that this
isn't a catastrophic moment so i get
that like i
i can put on my um
you know my hat of giving them the
benefit of the doubt but at some point
you have to look at what is the result
of that system and if you're looking at
the result of that system it becomes
pretty apparent that you've made things
so hard that it's only people that can
cross this incredibly insane threshold
that are going to be able to take
advantage of it and so that is where
this starts to really get wonky
but
now if we take that
hat off and we put on a cynical hat for
a second it really starts to be
outrageous of you've created the
ultimate game to isolate people that
don't know how to play that game and
then it creates this sense of overwhelm
which shuts people down and then they
don't engage
and so
when the crisis the covet crisis kicked
off whatever we're filming this like 18
19 months into it
i started having like some of the
biggest brains and finance on
and i i didn't know how to do those
interviews to be helpful because i was
trying to help the average person
and i just could not get them to um
articulate like how do you
you don't want to put the average person
in position where they have to
understand what's going on in china and
trade wars and stuff like that to be
able to make a decision
how do you think of that like as you
look at all right we have we're wearing
our cynical hats for a second we have
this system that seems designed
to isolate the average person
it is an incredibly complex system
i think that
there is an answer that was presented uh
which i'll give my answer once you've
had a chance uh to speak but
how do we help people
in this new era navigate that without
having to just tear down the old system
well it is uh it's i mean i i don't know
i mean i
so
numerai we have a hedge fund and it's
it's kind of um obviously you have to be
an accredited investor to invest so
anything i'm working on
probably not for the normal person but
it's not for lack of trying it's just
the way it is
so i mean
i but i do think that they are i mean
there are more people a lot of people
involved in the stock market through
things like robin hood and and etfs and
things like that so i don't think like
in some ways there is more access than
ever but then there's always like this
underbelly story which is like well
robin hood's selling the order flow
uh to citadel securities and they
they're this uh huge entity that's kind
of like done all this like regulatory
capturing
stuff but like so it's every that's
what's sad it's like every story you
hear was like about financial inclusion
it's like something in the background
that isn't that's like the dark side of
it but then when it comes to crypto it's
kind of like weirdly public you know
it's like there's every everything is on
chain uh you can see all the
transactions you kind of you kind of
know what you're getting into and then
when you have applications like
decentralized applications you know that
there are no intermediaries and and so
there's something compelling about that
to
for the normal person
however
it's sad that many of those things can't
be
what are considered securities so you
can't say i'm going to make a company
and my company is going to be on the
blockchain and we're going to turn
we're going to make a thousand shares
and
sell the shares to people to fund the
business
that is like completely illegal um and
so people are doing things where
they almost are told they're not allowed
to make their blockchain projects
valuable
if if it makes return
really bad
uh and if you tell people it might go up
uh
and
that seems strange that you're kind of
pushing this energy into more and more
um
things that aren't securities uh it's
like it would be better if um some of
these things could uh be more valuable
or could
have an open uh
they could do what they wanted to do
um
so it's a it's very hard i would say
it's very hard for for people to to
navigate
um
and
i don't really have any personal
financial advice for people that's very
wise since i'm sure that would get you
in trouble but another
yeah right i think you actually though
have your finger on the answer it's
interesting to me that you're doing it
within the sort of traditional hedge
fund world but here is the my core
thesis i'm building literally impact
theory is built on one idea and that
idea is if you want to scale in today's
age the fastest way to do it is to crowd
validate
so i came onto this idea which probably
was self-evident to people long before
me but it took me a minute
because we're a studio so we're trying
to tell stories and in any creative
endeavor you can expect a 1 in 20 hit
ratio
and so as i'm thinking through that i'm
like okay we have to then start with the
most inexpensive way to bring these
ideas to the public and then in the
inexpensive version you want to get the
crowd to vote with their attention
essentially on what do they like what do
they not like and as they validate that
then i spend more money so
the our value chain starts with what
we'll call fan fiction so it's just pros
right somebody's writing a story and
people are either responding to it or
not it's often called light novels
because it's not like you know nabakov
where you know it's like some really
deep [__] it's fun stories it's done
serialized so you know maybe you do a
few pages a week or whatever and people
just tune in and every week they know
they're gonna get something and so okay
cool if that's popping off then you move
it to a comic book then if the comic
book pops off then maybe you do short
animation if this short animation pops
off then you pitch to hollywood and you
do like the full blown thing and so
you've got this trail of value where you
can point back and say hey netflix the
reason you should get this is look how
many people read the weekly thing we've
already got you know a hundred thousand
people that read that every week the
comic book has a million people in it a
week our our animated shorts you know
have done hundreds of millions of views
so this is something that you know
people are going to be interested to
check out
now
you're going to have to explain to
people exactly what numeri does but the
fact that you're essentially and i don't
know that you would use the word crowd
validate but you're using this
intelligence of the crowd to create a
totally new paradigm for approaching the
market
and
i think you've tapped into something
that is universal it will work
everywhere you just happen to be using
it for finance
exactly i think
you're right that thesis is going to be
completely right this idea that you
could make kind of communities
and then those communities could have
huge uh impact uh over the long run
because they get bigger and bigger and
bigger like think about the ethereum
community or something like that um and
and numerai is trying to do that so
basically
the trad finance uh that's trad finance
traditional got it got it is uh it's
like you have
a lot of thousands of of really bright
people going into wall street and you
have thousands of sort of associated
paper pushing kind of like imaginary
[__] jobs that uh
that you know we all know about it's
kind of a whole fake system
um but you would think it would be it
would be worth it if if they were good
at their job um
but
it's like more like 80 of fund managers
actually underperformed the market
don't beat their benchmarks kidding and
they charge huge fees and they just they
just keep getting money because it's
often an agency problem so a big pension
fund will say
oh yeah you guys have a have a bunch of
our money and the pension fund gets to
go to drinks with them
and uh and then they slowly would
lose money over time and and but they
keep entertaining the guests it's the
kind of thing and the pension the people
who are in the pension fund don't even
know where the their money is so they
don't have any agency to
stop that problem
but anyway numerai was the idea was
could we make a completely new kind
hedge fund where
anyone could contribute
ideas to the hedge fund
uh signals to the hedge fund and the
hedge fund would combine them all
together and trade a really smart
model that had a lot more alpha than a
traditional fund um so people are
basically giving you here's what i think
is going to predict the success of a
given stock
so yes um but it's a little bit more uh
it's very quantitative so every model
that is submitted on numerix is a
machine learning model
and so it's not really for everybody
it's not like you got to tell us your
favorite stocks or something like that
it's much more
complicated so we give out a huge data
set of thousands of features and decades
of financial data and all the data is
completely obfuscated meaning no one
knows what the data even means like if
you looked at our data it's like
millions of numbers between zero and one
that's it
and you're supposed to do something with
that
and people can't do anything with that
data because they
can't they don't know what to do it's
just too vast it's too vast and there's
too many um features and they don't even
know what the features mean
but a machine learning model can model
any data set
a machine learning model
can
look at patterns in any data right and
so
everyone is
downloading our data and using machine
learning models like neural networks or
tree based models or any any anything
they want
and
finding patterns in that data that no
one else has found before
and submitting signals to us
on 5 000 stocks in the world and again
they don't even know what stocks they're
predicting on it's kind of complicated
but
it works
and they're predicting on 5000 global
stocks and giving numerai
a deep uh edge
over anything else that's been done
before because we have by far the most
models uh if you take a big hedge fund
like a
renaissance or bridgewater or two sigma
the number of people who are actually
modeling data because they have a lot of
compliance people and all those kind of
things
it's like maybe a few hundred and
numerai already has
like about 4 000 models uh that
uh every week are submitted uh to power
our hedge fund
yeah so this to me is incredibly
interesting i don't understand though
and we'll we'll come back around to the
idea of just
using the crowd validation but
machine learning why
doesn't
a machine
learn the same thing like why
why do all of these different models
end up adding more value i don't
understand how machine learning works to
be honest that's a good question um
it's a very good question so actually if
you think about one way to think about
machine learning is that it's like
fitting a line
so
fitting a curve so if you have an x y
scatter plot of data right you can draw
the line of best fit right the linear
regression so
would find the mapping between those two
variables
and find the line that fits the data the
best
so
for
for a linear model like that there is um
there's always a right answer so given
any scatter plot if you computed the
line of best foot and i computed the
line of best fit we would get the same
answer
and
numerai what we're doing is there's not
just an x and a y-coordinate system
there's the there's about 10 000
dimensions of the data
and
and you can um
anyone can model the data so
they can use any type of model and so
some
many what a neural network is is a
it's a non-linear model so it can
combine those features in all kinds of
ways
and so the more features we give out
and the longer the data sets
the more types of models could be
discovered
and so
actually
many of our users are finding things
that are that are really strange and
might never be um
found by another hedge fund but by
having thousands of those unusual
uncorrelated models
you can
create a very very high
sharp ratio which is like
very high um
return per unit of standard deviation uh
in your returns so that i can see if i'm
i can understand machine learning at a
really basic level i'll give you the
example that i
i saw a video of and fell in love with
it and just think this is so
extraordinary and i use it as an example
of learning from your mistakes but now i
want to actually understand under the
hood what's going on so there's a game
called breakthrough
and it's like an old atari game and
you've got a paddle
and a little ball and then you've got
these bricks at the top and the idea is
to break all the bricks as quickly as
you can basically and
when the machine starts playing the
little paddle is just wiggling like mad
it clearly the machine doesn't even know
what it's supposed to do so i don't know
if they told it get a high score and so
it's like okay like i know i can move
paddle and so it moves paddle randomly
the paddle finally ends up accidentally
colliding with the ball the ball then
breaks something now the machine's like
oh [__] i see how this is goes
and then now tries to hit the ball and
then it hits the ball and it starts
getting points then one time it breaks
through all the way on one side and now
the ball starts bouncing automatically
at the top and and automatically killing
everything at the top and the paddle
doesn't have to do anything so then the
machine starts to optimize for how
quickly can i break through one of the
sides and get the ball to do this auto
bounce thing at the top and break all
the things
and so what is the person doing
to explain to the machine like is it
giving it an incentive get a high score
is it telling it wiggle the paddle like
what does it
do
so that then the machine can actually
learn
great question and that's a great
example of machine learning so uh what's
happening there is there are features
right uh what do you mean by features
just like
at any given state
there's stuff to know about the system
uh and so you know where the paddle is
and you know uh where the ball is maybe
and based on the pixels in the screen
those can generate a bunch of features
and then you're basically fitting a
model to those features
um
and
learning from experience are you
teaching the machine that there is a
good state and a bad state or a better
state and a worse state in that
particular game i think they did give it
the score and they just said optimize
the score
and
and in a similar way
how
sometimes these machine learning
algorithms can become so good they have
almost like an alien intelligence uh
like the way it breaks the
breaks up into the top of the of break
breakthrough um
it uh and just sort of like starts it
just becomes like whoa you're like
perfect at this game
and
i my hope is that uh with numerai the
the longer we we go on
the more alien
and peculiar the types of trades uh we
make i'm trying to reach into your mind
and figure out what you mean by alien
and i think it's this that there's no
emotion
there's no emotion and there's it's also
unexpected it's like it's like a
creativity um
that emerges and it's like how why did
you think to trade tesla now
everybody doesn't like tesla or whatever
and then he's like well
i don't know why but the models
have started to get really really
intelligent and do things where we're
like whoa that was a good trade
this is so interesting so i'm going to
keep pushing on this um all right so
you're giving you're telling the machine
to look for states i'm guessing if we're
numer right well you're going to tell me
that you don't know i'm going to i'm
going to say things out loud i get that
they're going to be flaws on this uh if
i'm trying to come up with a numerai
signal so i'm saying here's the thing
that i think will accurately predict
what trade to make when
that
i have to tell
the machine that's parsing that
historical data i have to tell it that
there are certain things to value over
other things
one of those i'm guessing is return on
investment yeah exactly that's your
first guess that you might want to tell
it to
choose to make return
so the the target variable the thing
you're optimizing for
is return
and where this becomes alien is that i
think ooh actually don't optimize for a
return optimize for this and it happens
to give me a bigger return yes in fact
we don't optimize for return uh
it's much more complicated and you
because on when the stock market you're
not just trying to choose one stock and
put all your money in it and hope it
goes up
you're trying to build portfolios
and in fact with numerize fund we don't
really mind where the stocks go
as long as the portfolio meaning i don't
care if they go up or down yeah most
people don't know what a hedge fund is
that's true even so i'm going to give
you a definition of hedge fund and
you're going to tell me how off i am
here's what i think so i try to make
sense of the word hedge
so
that most people think of the stock
market is you choose the right stocks
that are going to go up whereas a hedge
fund is going to be able to go in either
direction because they're hedging
something so either if the stock market
is going down you could hedge no i
actually think it's going to go up or if
the stock market's going up you can
hedge and say no actually i think it's
going to go down how close am i that's
correct and yeah most a a market neutral
hedge fund is kind of the purest version
of a hedge fund where every
long position every stock that's bought
there's also a corresponding short
position
how doesn't that just always equal zero
it should
uh
yeah that's what's cool um
if you
if you have
lots of longs and lots of shorts and you
bought them randomly
and all along means is it's the the
value is going to go up and a short
means the value is going to go down
exactly okay so you've got longs you've
got shorts
the expected value of that is zero
percent and and if you bought
the
because the the basket of random stocks
you're buying have an expected return of
the market so it'll kind of go up as
much as the s p if they probably got 500
random stocks
and then the expected return of the
shorts are what's are negative
uh the market and so together they make
a portfolio that shouldn't move
and uh
the
the trick is what if um you didn't
choose randomly
and you chose with intelligence
maybe you could have the risk of cash
because it's just if it's not supposed
to move you're taking the risk of cash
you're not taking the risk of the market
um and they don't know what that means
you're taking the risk of cash not the
market
yeah so it means like if you have a
hundred dollars
and um in your account and you go long
dollars and short 100
you haven't spent any money
when you shorter stock you get money
for selling it even though you don't own
it oh god this gets so complicated so
i've i've thankfully i've walked through
this with my money manager and i think
she wanted to punch me in the mouth
because i was just like i don't [__]
understand this but now i have a loose
enough grasp so basically if i am
betting which you're probably gonna hate
that term but if i'm betting that the
stock market is going to go down there's
somebody else who's betting that um
that it's going to go up and so people
are willing to buy
my position
and
there's like they're paying me to
guarantee me to buy it they are they are
making a little deal with a broker to
borrow your stocks uh for shorting
and they can borrow your stocks and then
once they've borrowed them they sell
them
and uh so they're selling something they
didn't they don't own
but they will they will return your
stock later when you know whenever you
need it
um but somewhere in here we get into
wall street bets and how you can really
[__] people up with shorts and stuff
um maybe explain that why how does it
end up being dangerous because i still
can feel that my brain is confused and
i've had this conversation yeah
sometimes no it is it is kind of
confusing so yeah it's quite weird like
if you have a hundred dollars in your
account and you short 100 of stock you
get you will have 200
of cash
in theory or in reality in reality
yeah how but your
because you you borrowed stock from
somebody you just said hey can i borrow
some stock and they're like sure you
have to pay us a little bit of interest
but like you can borrow my stock so now
i haven't done anything i've still got
100 and i've borrowed 100 of stock and
now because i have borrowed it i'm also
allowed to sell it it's mine to do
whatever i want with so i sell it
and then i get a hundred dollars of cash
proceeds so now i have 200
have i doubled my money no
because i have a short position i have
to return this stock eventually to the
person i borrowed it from
and therefore
if that stock doubles
i will lose
everything because i have to buy it back
at the highway i would buy it to replace
it 200. so if the price actually goes
down
then i was okay because i sold it and i
don't have to buy it back you can return
it at the lower price
so if it goes down to 50 and it goes
down goodbye and i got the vig on the
delta because i guess not even the vague
i got the delta yeah
[__]
so that's how shorting works and you can
see why it's scary because it is that
legal
like this is complex [__] this is like
really gambling but this
so you're gonna say something i'm
guessing
about the efficiency of markets yeah
i would i would like to say something
about that but yeah i mean if someone
knows something
about a stock knows it's gonna go up
um you want them to buy it because
they're putting their they're making the
market more efficient because they're
putting buy orders on that stock and it
becomes more valuable
if someone
knows something about a stock like it's
going down
why shouldn't they be able to express
that knowledge in the market so that the
price of that stock
tends towards the source because it's
mean and it will influence people's
perception
now i'm not saying you actually
shouldn't be able to you probably should
i don't know [__] about it but
that would be one that's one thing that
freaks me out about shorts is if you're
paying attention and people see ooh that
person who i think is really smart is
shorting it now my psychology flips and
i think it's going down and that brings
us right to [__] wall street bets
where it's like you really can influence
markets yeah for sure and um i i there's
maybe some questions about whether you
should be able to
short and then also take out a front
page ad in the new york times that says
this company sucks and everyone should
sell it or something
which people do i take it people do that
kind of thing and that's what was
happening with tesla even you'd had
these kind of normie analysts on wall
street making up stories and trying to
get tesla to go bankrupt and that would
have been a very bad outcome
for the world if that happened and it
was quite close
so
then you know
but but yeah it worked out in the end um
so i would say that
we when we short we're shorting like a
very small amount of very small and
we're not we're not actually not
interested in the company losing we're
just
interested in hedging our risk
uh with a company that we think is like
average
and so those are the companies we we
tend to short and i do think there's a
big questions about the sort of activist
shorting where they're like this
company's a fraud it's going bankrupt
and uh they get huge positions
but
in to some in
you know thanks to markets
they've been killed already
so the gamestop people killed
killed those types of shorters in fact
they shut down their firms this is the
craziest story of the last like
five years i mean this is absolutely
bananas yeah walk people through that i
don't know how familiar my audience is
with what happened with gamestop and
wall street bats walk them through what
is wall street bets let's start with
that
well i'll tell you a funny story
actually i was coming back from south
africa off to the christmas and uh
i was stopped by the
immigration
and they were like what are you doing in
america
what are you uh what what are you what's
your job and i was like i work at a
hedge fund and he just started laughing
he's like did you did you were you short
game stuff and he was just like laughing
he was like so happy he was like so
happy that um
the hedge fund people were struggling
under the wow the the wall street bets
thing so it was a very interesting kind
of movement where
uh gamestop considered kind of a bad
company
uh
not many prospects
and um
but
reddit people decided they really liked
it
and uh kind of got together and
pulled off this massive short squeeze
where they knew
a lot of people had shorted this company
and they knew that the more the price
went up the more they'd have to cover
their short as in you know do this what
we just described where you have to go
out and buy it
buy the company that you don't even want
to buy
in order to
return it back to the person you
borrowed it from and why can't you just
wait for the price to come back down
because
you have um
some kind of risk mandate in your fund
and you're you maybe you have a deal
with your investors where they say
you're not allowed to have more than 30
percent in one name
otherwise you know we're gonna pull the
money or sue you
and so they maybe put 10 percent into
game stop short and then it went to 30
suddenly it's 30 of their positions
because the value would be so high
for them to have to buy it that on the
books it changes the ratio exactly yeah
so it's suddenly this huge position and
they have just a
rule like they can't keep holding it
even if they think it's going to
eventually go down
their their risk limits say they have to
sell some
and so as an exit the position
so they end up
needing to go into the market to buy the
exact thing that they think is going
down and that pushes the price even
higher that is crazy yeah
and so it was very interesting thing to
watch because it was a bit of like
maybe crowd crowd validation because
it's like you have all these people
and um they're posting screenshots of
their
accounts on robinhood
proving that they're they're they're in
and that they're diamond hands they're
not gonna sell
uh and and suddenly people like maybe we
can
we can do this and in this kind of
distributed way
decentralized intelligence they end up
doing something that was actually very
smart
um and
and did and did cause big ripples in the
hedge fund industry because a lot of the
those stocks were
when that type of thing is happening um
it affects all kinds of other stocks so
there was almost like a huge rally in
these kind of junk stocks
and all the hedge funds are short the
junk stocks we we even shot some of them
not gamestop but some of them
and
they
they don't know how to deal with that
type of um
event and it's almost like unprecedented
and so you had funds like two one of two
sigma's funds was down
8.6 which is like one of their worst
years one of the worst months on record
um and many many other quant funds did
terribly because of this so it really
did have
the
a negative effect on the on those
markets
okay so what was going on there is so
uh wall street bets is a reddit
sub a subreddit and so it's just a bunch
of humans that are in a space sort of
together talking about were they saying
hey let's go um i believe in
in
gamestop and i want to see it go up or
hey guys if enough of us buy into this
we can [__] over the hedge funds yeah
it's hard to know what the sort of like
aggregate motivation was uh but there
were people who liked the stock
uh like even michael bury uh the big
short guy he owned it he thought it was
a bit undervalued at a time
this is where maybe was on four dollars
or something and then um there are other
people that came in and
for their own reasons liked it um
but then it started to become like well
someone's posting that there's this huge
hedge fund that has a huge short
position and all we need to do is to get
this
up by 50 or more
um
and they will be toast and uh we can
literally take their money out of their
fund into our robin hood accounts
dude that that is insane the what you
just said we can literally take the
money out of their accounts and put it
into our robin hood accounts that's
bananas that's the short cover here's
why
i
always encourage people to don't think
about things think about the nature of
things once you understand what's really
going on like i could never have pulled
that off because i don't understand it
well enough and because i don't
understand it well enough i can't think
from first principles and if you can't
think from first principles you can only
follow you can't lead and wow like that
is
really really fascinating so this whole
idea of
um
distributed anything we're moving into a
really fascinating period in human
history and my mission has slowly become
over the last 18 19 months since kova
kicked off
getting people to
recognize that we're going through
something unprecedented right now but in
any moment of disruption is tremendous
opportunity
i wanted to have you on the show because
i see you applying that to an area where
i know people told you to your face like
this isn't going to apply to finance
which you're really pushing back on but
going broader than finance why do you
think there is
why is decentralization
as a movement
well one do you think it's inevitable
and the future and if so why
someone said to me that what
decentralized thing has ever really
worked and i was like what
literally capitalism it like
that is a decentralized
that is the story of it um so it's it's
like this idea that if you leave people
to their own uh
decision making and let them start
things and create capital um
it will just kind of do amazing things
and no there was no central planner who
called elon musk
15 years ago 20 years ago and said you
have to start an electric car company
um please do it we need it no one it was
from him
and uh and so
you can have
a system like the kepler system where
you have have
amazing outcomes um
from people following their own
instincts and and uh motivations
and um
and so
when but decentralization now means a
lot like kryptos related stuff and it's
like why is that decentralized um well
no one's in charge there's no one who
can stop you from building
uh a small set of instructions on on the
blockchain and have that become a very
valuable piece of uh financial
infrastructure
uh
and that's so um empowering for people
uh and
and
to make it even more intense
uh why crypto is a kind of hyper
capitalism
even if that thing is doing something
wrong uh like it's a little bit scammy
or a little bit
scary there's no one who can stop it
and so in the in the capitalist mark in
the united states if a company is doing
something wrong they can just be shut
down
and but in crypto it's it's a more
uh
it's more free
uh but it's also more dangerous for that
reason but the the benefits um
so far seem to be outweighing the
bad things i mean the the good things on
crypto
uh are are very good um what are the
good things in crypto well i mean
some of the things like say
uniswap is a really interesting
exchange and it's suddenly got it's a
decentralized exchange has no
intermediaries you don't need to sign up
to it you don't need to
um
kyc yourself you don't need to do
anything you can just trade
and
uh
it's got some some days it has more
volume than coinbase
and it was started like
i don't know 18 months ago or something
um
so there's that type of thing
that it and it's it's also got no one
working there in some way so there's
some coders who work at a company that
sort of support the protocol but
the protocol's out there and it can't be
it can't be taken down ever
ever
uh so it's kind of cool
this is the closest i've ever felt
there's there's two things i will say
there's two things that i'm like
you have to stop and look at these two
things because it will change your life
so profoundly that i've given my entire
professional life to getting people to
understand two things
the first one i knew would be a thing
because mindset so that like changed my
life it took me from scrounging in my
couch cushions to find enough change to
put gas in my car which is a real story
to you know having serious success in
business
and so i was like whoa this is teachable
it's repeatable other people can do this
and now the other is
i don't know what word to shorthand it
to maybe decentralization
um maybe uh crypto
i don't know but the the
shift in cultural energy
to things that can't be censored stopped
broken whatever
going outside the system maybe that's it
and
when i see what's happened like this
the number of people in fact i'm saying
it now to everybody listening to this
you have to do your own research i
cannot see the future this is not
financial advice i'm not a financial
advisor i do not know what the [__] i'm
doing so all i want people to do is look
at it and if they look at what's going
on in crypto and they reject it fair
enough maybe you know something i don't
and maybe
my gains are short-term gains this is so
possible and i cannot stress enough that
people need to do their own research
but now having said all of that what i
want people the reason i want people to
do their own research is
the rich getting richer is not a
phenomenon i find interesting even
though i am wealthy and so this like
crypto is playing out extraordinarily
well for me all i do is dollar cost
average i buy a little bit every day of
what i'll call the blue chips like the
safest ones because again i do not know
what the [__] i'm doing i do not spend
my time the safest ones are pretty risky
already ultra volatile
but
like getting in there and learning about
where all the cultural energy is flowing
and at least looking at it like
otherwise dude this is going to be
another thing where a small number of
people who are in the know end up
reaping all the benefits and so i am so
eager to get people to even forget like
crypto as currencies
anybody out there who's contemplating
starting a business understand why the
culture wants that to happen because you
can deploy that as you have done with
numerai into a business
whether it's finance whether i'm doing
it on the studio level this is going to
happen everywhere this is what i think
is the inevitable future which all sum
up is saying this
you have to find a way
to tie
the community into the success of a
product and company and if you fail to
do that you will fail in business you
will fail in finance you will fail in
everything and it is it's a transition
that's happening so rapidly that there
will be outsized success over the next i
don't know i don't know if it's five
months or five years or 50 years i don't
know but it's happening so
terrifyingly fast
and it's absolutely thrilling i'm having
the ride of my life
most businesses will not be able to
switch from extracting value to giving
value and that will
i think will decimate them and is
exactly
why
there's huge opportunity in this moment
of disruption but i'm just so eager for
people to really look at that yeah it's
very hard for people to get their head
around that simple fact of like
unstoppable or immutable
uh technology one and because they've
grown up in a world uh that is very
controlled
um
so
if you've had the experience of posting
a picture
on facebook or something and then it
gets reported
for some some violation and
and then you realize you're not this
isn't your profile page
this is like and and even they could
change the design of the page they could
change what
what content is shown to your friends
you could be sort of shadow banned
and so if you think like that you you
don't have any kind of relationship with
any of the web 2 things that you've
been involved with like facebook or
twitter or something
you are um
you're not in any position of real
ownership
and and that is what crypto changes and
and that's very very powerful difference
um if you upload and that's maybe what
you're seeing with nfts if you if you
can if if you can upload an image to
your your facebook profile and everybody
can see that image
that's extremely
extremely low value compared to if you
can own that image or token that
represents that image
one is worth nothing and some are worth
60 million dollars on the blockchain and
so the difference between owning
something forever and being this kind of
like
um
sort of like slave to a system is a very
different uh mindset and uh people
it's like my one of my friends said fred
ursum he's a co-founder of coinbase i we
went on a hike a long time ago in
like 2013 or 14 or something 15 and he
was just like i think people want to
like own their stuff
and i was like what is this guy talking
about
uh he's like i think people want to own
their stuff and i've always remembered
that because that's exactly what it is
you you don't
it doesn't feel like we own things
anymore like even if you own a house
it's like somehow vulnerable to
some government change
uh of of the way that
yeah it's crazy like i'm i'm in my 40s i
shouldn't feel this way but i do
it feels weird yeah
you feel like you don't know and yeah
like it feels like um there's just a lot
of like meddling a lot of and maybe it's
just restriction i don't know but it
there is something really intoxicating
about this idea of actually owning your
[__] yeah and i've become way more
enamored with
virtual goods which i would not have
believed if you told me this a year ago
i would have said no no i'll always like
i dig it i get virtual stuff i've always
understood that that's just made sense
to me but
i would have thought that i would always
value the physical more and somewhere in
the last 12 months that changed yeah
that's an incredible thing to change um
to feel like your relationship with your
physical world is somehow fragile but
then the your relationship with the
digital world is is actually fixed and
permanent and doesn't need police um
and
so that's a very powerful thing to to be
aware of and
i do think you're right that over the
next few years
people that don't get that quite right
aren't are going to be in a bad place
and i think
even the the big owners of the big
monopolies like facebook or google or
twitter or any of those things they
they are
they're totally aware at this point
of this of this huge sea change um and
they've built out a lot of uh
relationships with the deep state you
know basically they've they've joined
the
the they follow the party lines but they
are also
run by in some cases entrepreneurs who
maybe don't want to
play
that way forever
and if the internet can be is going to
be free which seems like a thing that
will continue in the united states
hopefully
then all this crypto stuff is part of it
it's not like we can really have a free
internet and not have
uh crypto either the whole internet's
free
um and kind of unregulated
or it's not and and it's it's a very
different game if if the u.s starts
saying well no you can't use this
application and what do you think will
happen
i am very curious to see i think it's
going to be very intense the next couple
of
years i'm kind of worried about like
some of my friends
in crypto
because
there's a lot of good intentions and a
lot of good
good actors in this space especially in
the united states like the people here
are nice they're trying to make nice
things they they're really wealthy they
don't they're not uh worried about
making money
they really do want to make something
special something new and if the good
actors get targeted
then it's like
a particularly sad state
like if you like brian armstrong
uh founder of coinbase he uh
he had this situation where like he's
like been fighting well he's been
uh
talking with the sec about
these issues for so long and they've put
so much thought into their
regulatory policy
and um but
they they keep getting kind of kind of
uh treated badly i think by regulators
even though they're so clearly good
actors
yeah this will be it'll be really
interesting i'm
worried about what happens if the us
tries to clamp down on it there's so
much cultural energy pouring into it
and
look you used a great word earlier that
crypto is it there's a sense of danger
to it so
i just had an experience this morning
that was absolutely hilarious so because
there was a period of my life an un uh
a an extended period of my life in my
20s where
every dollar counted in my life and so i
developed this real frustration when
banks acted like my money was their
money yeah and now that it's on a
grander scale i still have that sort of
rage inducing mechanism
and just today i was trying to wire a
non-inconsequential amount of money
but
first of all they trapped it and so they
stopped it
and i called them tried to deal with it
nope they wanted me to go into a branch
i'm like guys i do not have time a and b
covid no thank you um so
not super keen to go into the bank let's
just deal with this over the phone
they
were one you have to stand hold for
ungodly periods of time and then second
they were like what why are you wiring
the money
and that's like my red line i'm like
that's none of your [__] business
like yeah this is my money i'll [__]
wire it to whoever i want like thank you
for the protection but like asking me
what i'm doing with it like
that drives me [__] crazy and so once
you get into crypto and you see how easy
it is one it feels a little scary
because you're like i could send this to
the wrong address and it is gone forever
like there is no getting that back
but
the first time you send a payment and
it's like 0.2 seconds
it is
amazing and so the reason i had to wire
the money not that i was willing to tell
my bank this not that it nothing bad but
i was trying to
buy an nft
and coinbase limits right the amount
that you can send in any one day
um and so that's an important thing to
note is there are some parts of crypto
that are centralized and so you run into
the same issues but once you get into
your wallet you can do whatever the hell
you want so anyway i was having trouble
getting enough into my wallet to buy
this nft so i ping a friend
and i was like yo i'm trying to get this
and he was like cool i'll send you the
eat then just wire me the money and so
the hilarity of it took him point two
seconds to get me the eath and it's
taken me like four days
and like battling with my bank to get
him the money i was like oh my god this
is so obnoxious well it's funny you say
this like i i just had this kind of
experience so
for some reason just because i made a uh
i
sold some crypto that i had not um
one that i bought a long time ago from a
uh like a friend's project
and uh send some to my bank account
shut my bank account down
uh card blocked everything and i was
like what are you guys doing and i have
like a private wealth person who's
supposed to be like looking after my
interests
and she's like
well um you know we needed to do some
kyc like ask your like i'm like what are
you talking about like you do know me
like me i have been like at the bank for
like 12 years and
now i'm like
i paid i i got my um
an assistant who works for me this guy
pedro
uh
he
had to draw money from the cash
mail it to me
by fedex to the hotel
so i could afford to like buy a cab
to go to the conference that i'm going
to
and like it's still in process my
netflix is i can't even watch netflix my
paypal's off
and i'm like
kind of a good citizen of the financial
system and i paid like a lot of taxes
and like
[__] it man i hate it i was just like
maybe i should just not
get the card fixed oh dude i've
literally been rejected from every
credit card i've applied to i have no
credit why
don't partly because i'm south african
uh-huh
so yeah it's actually terrible
and it's also this feeling of like oh
wow i'm actually powerless like if i
move banks
that's the next bank
is under the same regulatory
regime
and has the same people working there
shuffling the same papers and
annoying their customers on purpose yeah
so
i just don't think this is going to last
like if it's that if it's that hard to
like
use just to or like my like i'm locked
out of my uber it's like so crazy that
is crazy
it will be very interesting to see it
feels to me inevitable that the
the decentralized web web 3 however
we're going to think about it is going
to happen that people are i hope going
to be willing to trade some of the risk
and look i am not looking for
no regulations or anything like that i
had a conversation with robert breedlove
and i was saying like sovereignty is a
double-edged sword i don't want a
hundred percent sovereignty like i like
the idea that you know the cops will
show up if i've got an issue i don't
want to have to you know deal with
everything myself so i'm certainly not
that guy um but getting to a world where
there are options where we can make
different trade-offs
and it seems to me that crypto's the
leading edge of that exactly um
and i also agree i actually i i don't
think the the u.s the story of the
united states would would have worked
out so well
um
without the sec
uh like they did a lot of good clever
things um to make america like they do
want to be the financial capital like of
the world
um
and they've done things that made a lot
of sense but i feel like somewhere
around like 2008 or something
they just started going just like into
this insane
uh direction
where
it seemed
like is let's just say
0.001 percent of
of transactions are are are kind of
sketchy
is it worth wasting your time
or my time as entrepreneurs
spending six days a year
locked out of their bank accounts
so that you can like do your compliance
[__]
like no
it's uh it's absurd and it's ugly and
it's like not what what we we should be
doing at all yeah this is so companies
as i'm sure you know um they reach a
point where the system you use when you
were smaller stops helping you and so
it's what i call the dragon begins
eating its own tail
and i think there's that sweet spot
where you want regulation you do want
protection but then there comes a point
where it starts being destructive and
it's creating more problems and it's
freeing up
you're using a tactic in numerai that i
think is part of the potential solution
to this which is staking yes talk about
staking
because you i haven't heard anybody else
say what i've heard you say many times
and no one ever asks you a follow-up
question so here we are which is you've
said
not only is it working in numeri and
finance but i think that this would work
across the entire internet yes so what
is staking and why will it help
so staking is
where you lock up some crypto assets
any coin
and
and because you've locked it up
uh you get some kind of benefit
um and you can unstake and get your
stake back
and
that simple mechanism uh is really nice
in some ways you know how like there's
things on the incident either free
or paid
and i think like the middle of free and
paid is is like staking where it's
actually not paid
it actually is free you can't stake
and then on steak um
but you can do things when you're when
you're when you do staking so for
numerai
we had
a really good start to the company had
lots of people join an amazing data
scientist submit predictions to the to
the fund and
for after a while what happened was
people realize well if i just make a
thousand numerai accounts
um then i'm gonna increase the chance of
me having one
model that's just lucky and then i will
win the numerai tournament
and that's like a civil attack it's
called sort of and it's uh it's uh you
don't want that in a system like this
because we want to know you believe in
in your model we don't want to have
thousands of of models just hoping to
get because it just creates noise it
creates noise and we wouldn't know which
models are good
and
with staking we say well in order to
make any money on numeri
you have to stake
our cryptocurrency nmr on your model
and
that
is how you earn money like if your
model performs well
you will earn more
nmr tokens and if your model performs
badly will destroy some of your stake
and
that simple mechanism of having the
rewards be linked to the stake means you
can still make go and make a thousand
accounts
but
which one are you going to stake
or which is going to have the most stake
the one that you believe in the most
and that's this big problem that we
solved where
it's so easy to make a quant model that
looks good it's like it's got a good
back test it looks like it's going to
work on the future but with staking we
only pay based on if your model is going
to work in the future and we get you to
say up front you put kind of skin in the
game and say i believe in this model so
much i'm willing to stake a hundred
thousand dollars on it
and um and that's uh how does that
advantage them to instead of doing ten
dollars why a hundred thousand do they
get a bigger payout yeah so their
payouts are based almost like as a
percentage of their stake so if they
have a kind of two percent correlation
with uh
returns or risk adjuster returns they
will end up having this state go up by
two percent or burned by two percent if
that's bad did you watch squid game
yeah this reminds me of the marble thing
how much did you bet so you've got
whether you were right when you've got
the oh [__]
not that that gave anything away but uh
yeah peeps gotta watch squid game so
yeah um okay so how does this then carry
across to the rest of the internet
so
because um
it solves the sort of spam problem
like what if you could on your twitter
account you know the twitter checkmark
uh
what if there was another checkmark the
green check mark which is just like
the person who owns this account
has staked more than a hundred dollars
on their account
well
what's it what's the big deal like
why what what would that do well it
would make you whenever you see that be
like well this guy's probably not a bot
because a bot army
would never be able to afford
uh staking
um
all of them
and then you could um
you know and if you ever wanted to
unstake people would be able to see that
on the blockchain and then you maybe
lose your checkmark or something so that
simple thing it's not like twitter is
now charging you to have an account
or charging you for it's actually not to
do with twitter just like staking isn't
actually to do with numerai staking is
happening
on the blockchain
and so when people stake it's like a
blockchain transaction and um
and so there's no intermediaries and we
can't
steal your stake or anything like that
because it's not an agreement with us
it's agreement with ethereum kinda so
i think that those mechanisms could and
will reach the broad web um very soon
and change the way we we do things do
you think that it has implications
beyond just sort of validating who you
are
it has it for any anything that you want
to have stake on so for numerai
you actually all of our data scientists
are anonymous but they're doing it to
express something else their confidence
and their predictions
and
anything that involves like
proving authenticity or proving you're
part of the
crowd i mean even say the gamestop thing
imagine you could make a stake on a
blockchain
that proved
that you held gamestop
and you weren't gonna sell
and anyone could maybe see on the
blockchain that if you did sell
that's the type of thing that's going to
be able to happen
where you could have collective
uh contracts uh
and
and be able to do incredible things once
you have the proof that you're you're
staking a lot
this is really interesting so i was
taking notes on you and like what i
wanted to touch on and i was like man i
oftentimes my intuition leads my ability
to articulate why something feels right
i've heard a lot of people talk about
staking i've never staked anything in my
life but obviously being in the crypto
space i hear it a lot
hearing you talk about it i was like
okay that's a really interesting way to
do it when you're into crowd validation
you need to know that your crowd is
validated and that people aren't able to
uh mimic the crowd or be a bot in the
crowd or whatever and so i was like wow
this is really interesting as i think
about you know trying to build out a
studio and do it in a different way and
use all these layers of crowd validation
i was like oh there might be something
there was staking i don't yet know
exactly what it is but i can feel
something tickling at the back of my
mind that this could be useful totally
uh it's it's so it's so useful to us and
i changed our business like there's so
many businesses that i think
couldn't exist without it um and so we
don't even know what those are but i
think the idea of a crowd-sourced hedge
fund
um
it seems obvious that you should be able
to have an internet hedge fund like
there's an internet everything why isn't
there an internet hedge fund and the
reason is
you've never been able
to get the
contributors
to that system
to be able to put skin in the game
uh
with and we are doing that with staking
talk to me a little bit about so this
whole idea of being a quant it's so
foreign to me um have you just always
been naturally drawn to math do you find
math incredibly useful
i actually uh only really got into math
in college i just decided to um
get good at it because i realized there
was so much of the world
was written like in that language
basically and
you don't really get enough
knowledge from high school
and uh but i was also always interested
in stocks my dad like gave me stocks
when i was eight years old and i just
followed them and and uh
traded options when i was 15 um and
started and our options the same as
shorts and options are even more funky
than shorts
so what are options um
it's where you have an agreement uh to
buy
something
a right to buy something at a future
date at a certain price okay so so i can
say hey if this goes down it's like a
limit order
except it is um
it's
just a right so there's no obligation to
have doesn't happen automatically yeah
so you and i'm paying for that right
yeah you're paying a premium like an
option premium
so um
what would the option
to buy
google
imagine the option to buy google shares
at two dollars
per share
yes please that option would be like
yeah i'm definitely gonna exercise that
option and so that option would be very
very valuable
um
but uh but then there's also put options
which are so that's a call option and
they're put options that are making
money and when the stock goes down so
it's like insurance if the stock goes
down
that i have somebody who's willing to
buy it from me at that price
exactly are they just literally the
reverse of each other you have the right
to sell the stock at that price so i can
only do a put option if somebody's done
a call option at the same amount no
actually they're different um
but
but usually there'll be calls and puts
on the same asset so let's just say
i don't know what google's trading at
but let's just say you had the right
to sell google shares
at a hundred thousand dollars per share
somebody has to be guaranteeing that on
the other side so yeah banks and things
are kind of underwriting these options
really
banks
an individual person can't do it uh
actually no
because of how risky it is
uh it's quite hard to get the ability to
write options it's easy to buy and sell
them
but it's hard to get the right to
create them
so wait a second it's easy to buy and
sell them there's only two sides to that
equations what's the difference between
buying and writing
you're um
it's like you're the counterparty of the
of the whole uh deal like
um
yeah like if you and i buy and sell an
option it's basically at the exercise
time when you you can exercise this
option
someone's on the hook for that so it's a
bit like you and i are
if we if there was an insurance contract
or something that we had on a house
you and i can trade it but we're still
hoping that the insurance company is
good on the on the deal it's like that
dude this is why i think crypto is long
term just going to suck in so much
capital this [__] is confusing
now i'm not the brightest guy around but
i'm also not dumb and i find all of this
extraordinarily difficult to wrap my
mind around whereas when i looked at
crypto i was like oh this is very basic
it's arbitrage this is like a currency
and so
just like when i first got married my
wife is british it was like hey if you
know she's got pounds in an account in
england and we've got dollars like you
can sort of transfer them back and forth
based on where the exchange rate is
going and if you think that's going to
change i was like oh cool like i get
that so if i buy a pound today and the
pound goes up in value compared to the
dollar
then i'm laughing this is amazing
that's at least
like a far simpler thing i just heard
you explain it twice and i still don't
understand like how the writing of a put
and a call and all that stuff and look i
know i could buckle down and finally
figure it out but jesus
like that is far more complicated it is
it is complicated but it's um but it's
it's a little bit like fake complicated
i mean like it doesn't need to be this
way that
we
we could have had these kind of
options be something else um
it's not like a
a deep thing to understand um so i think
if you could have been made as simple as
hey i want to guarantee that i can buy
if the price drops too because this is
how
this is what i do on crypto right so i
only i limit buy all the time i almost
never buy from market value so i'll say
okay the price is whatever if it drops
you know 500
uh then cool i'm in trigger a buy for
whatever
but that means that somebody else has to
sell at that moment if no one's willing
to sell then i'm done there's nothing i
can do yeah so
is that the simplification of this whole
thing or is there well anything i mean
anything can become a market so like
that the the
it's still true that
call and put options or anything you
know has a market and then people have
bids and offers on that market so once
you get to the
the market point it's it could be
anything and it's easy to understand
but um
but yeah with derivatives it's it's it's
just often a more leveraged uh scary
version of of like just buying the
underlying assets
what is a derivative this is a word i
hear all the time and i've never gotten
it the derivative is uh kind of anything
to do with
anything based on the underlying stock
i put a call uh short yeah exactly so
and option was is a derivative of the
stock
um
and it just means it's its value is
derived from the price of of the stocks
the price or the price of something else
and so
um
all the all kinds of derivatives in the
in the market
i want to go back to math for a second
so
i am very sad that i didn't pay
attention to math in high school it
doesn't come easily to me and people who
are like oh no like it describes the
world and it's beautiful
i believe it i just my brain like there
is there is an actual blankness like
when i encounter math my brain doesn't
fire nothing happens so if i um
if i read a book encounter a
psychological principle i see a painting
my brain sparks
but math is like an absence of something
for me and so i really have to like get
in and try to anchor it around something
so that i can sort of trigger my visual
brain if that makes sense and then i can
start to grasp the concepts um
or even break it into its constituent
part so i found in high school if i
would force myself to go to the
chalkboard
i would be able to figure it out because
i was forced to go okay wait here's
where my brain goes blank i don't
understand this and then the teacher
would go that's where you use this
formula or whatever okay cool and i
would just memorize that and then it
would i could get it
um
but
now that i'm in business
i'm like holy [__] i use math every day
and it's so important but if you were
talking to somebody who's 15
they're in algebra and they want to know
why does this matter like do you have an
explanation
uh i think it definitely does matter and
it's very important
but it's also that there's this
interesting thing in culture so i'm i'm
i'm i admire you for saying that you
don't you have like a block of math
because many people can become um
bad at math because they're too afraid
of saying they
are asking for help or saying they don't
understand something because there's
something in our culture which is like
if you're good at math you're smart
there's like very related concepts which
is just i don't know because of media
like probably there was some movies that
had like yeah like rain man or something
i don't know
um but it's not true anyone i think
anybody can do math and should do math i
used to tutor math uh to
students um
so i mean why is it important i think
it's
it's it is a type of uh kind of a way of
thinking i think but the the sad thing i
would say is that almost the entire of
high school math is not real math
i mean
it's just it's not to do with um
arithmetic
which is you know
what's your
what's what's nine times nine or
something like that like
even in movies where they have a smart
person they'll solve something quickly
and that's like an indication that
they're good at math but actually that's
again a complete distraction uh from
what like real math is which is
is much more about constructing proofs
how can you show that two things that
seem different are the same
um
and
though that type of thinking proof
proof-based math is very useful so to
any 15-year-old out there
i would say
try to um
learn some proofs
what are i remember these happening but
i cheated in high school so i did not
learn what is a proof a proof is a set
of um
statements that uh but mathematical
statements mathematical states it's not
like timmy went to the store it's yeah x
equals y or some crazy yeah but there
could be some uh explanation and and
written component to it too
but ultimately the logic is so rigorous
step that step by step you get to the
point where at the end of it you know
that the statement is true
not in the way we normally think about
what's true
but in a deep permanent universal way
can you give me an example well like
pythagoras theorem you know the
if you have a right angle triangle
and a squared plus b squared equals c
squared i think that's it
um and c is the hypotenuse of the
triangle and a is uh one side and b is
the other side and
and um
that is uh
important
uh you know geometric results and e
equals m c squared is that a proof that
is a physics um
statement but they would be a proof to
that would lead to to that
um based on other uh arguments uh so
um
but yeah uh i think it's a it's
it's very nice to know things for sure
especially in this world and that's one
of the reasons i studied mathematics was
because
i was i could learn all sorts of things
about kind of the
um
political fashion
du jour
uh
from like say studying politics or
something like that um
but
that would be almost like various kinds
of propaganda in some way
that might not be true
uh
you know
something
yeah controversial be like say something
like human rights
maybe not a not so so important as a
concept or something like that
and those things change with time
whereas with mathematics you are
learning things that are going to be
true in a deep and permanent and
universal way
and so
that's really nice especially when
you're trying to navigate the world that
you can know it you can know a few
things and they they can be true in a
deep way and um thinking back to uh
crypto like
there's some encryption proofs that show
that why can't i just take the money out
of your ethereum address and put it into
my address
why
what is the thing stopping me from doing
that and it's mathematics it's a
it's the way that that the encryption
works
so um it's nice to know a few things
that like that for sure because a lot of
people can be very confused um when they
put things in the same bucket
uh
if you've heard of a website being
hacked
why couldn't bitcoin be hacked
and the the two very different types of
uh
systems and you wouldn't know the
difference between them without thinking
through the the math of it and i don't
is there an easy way to explain
well the the main thing is yeah that
with bitcoin is just like it's on so
many different um
servers and they are following this
protocol
and uh
there
are certain security guarantees that you
get when you have a system that's
distributed like that
is this something and so there's a proof
around the number of
uh
nodes that it's installed on
by like how they parse that data and so
if you make a request
that it knows up we've got an errant
request over here and so mathematically
based on the number of
cycles that takes an average computer to
run that equation i'm trailing up here
but like i sort of get how does it
um
well that's the type of thing i think
that is uh
that is worth
at least knowing at least knowing the
the nature of things can be can be
different and uh
hearing that some some bank had their
website hacked
would not surprise me but hearing that
bitcoin was hacked
it i it wouldn't even make sense it it
doesn't make sense i mean you i've heard
you you could lose your keys or someone
could rob you and an exchange could go
down but bitcoin protocol itself would
be a lot more resilient to anything like
that very interesting okay so do we just
memorize proofs or is there a way to
discover
them yeah people discover them that's
what real mathematicians do
at uh professors are trying to prove
something that has never been proved
before that this equals this and proof's
always about finding that two things are
related or identical or that they are
not identical that they are
different
sometimes there'll be a conjecture that
these two things
um
don't equal each other or do equal each
other and if you could show it either
way it would be a profound uh
outcome because then everybody else can
just memorize it and so now we've just
sort of laid another brick in universal
understanding exactly everybody then
even you know a hundred years from now
in a martian civilization they could
rely on that mathematics
uh and
and use it for whatever they wanted to
very interesting have you by any chance
read project hail mary no oh my god it's
so good so this is you know talk about
science that i can digest easily it's
written by andy weir the guy that wrote
the martian which is what triggered my
thinking on that um and it's absolutely
fantastic and in the book he goes
through
i say that it's math not really but he
articulates science in a way that's fun
like hey if you know the you know the
pressure
the tensile strength of this material
and you know the
the
amount of gravity exerted because we're
spinning or whatever then you can get
this outcome and it just makes math and
science sound like whoa if you really
knew these things there are a lot of
problems that you can solve in life that
you would not otherwise be able to solve
yeah exactly and that's really important
you want to be like a magician you don't
want to just be
following others and by able being able
to build things uh is very valuable
why do you say like a magician that
rings true but i'm curious
i mean
you know like
coming up with something from nothing
that type of
practice you can get from mathematics
and other things like that
because you
you're faced with a problem
and you only have your mind to work with
and and other knowledge that you have
and uh if you can construct
something
and show it's true
um in some creative way that is uh it's
always gonna be
the same type of thing will
happens in your real life too
where you have to solve a problem with
just by yourself without any of the
knowledge you have
pretty sure i said this early in the
interview but that's why i
um certainly i myself try to think from
first principles and why i encourage the
team to do it because if you can think
from first principles you really can do
something original but if you don't you
can't exactly and it also is like a um
you can rely on it even when you have um
when things are going badly because it's
coming from a place of first principles
so one
one um thing i often say about numerai
is
uh to investors or something it's like
if let's if there were to be a hedge
fund
with all of the data
all of the best talent
connected to it and all connected with
the perfect incentives through staking
why wouldn't that be
the the best hedge fund ever
why couldn't that change the whole world
and so if you just think from those
three basic principles
because we already have all three now
uh it's very easy to predict um the
future
when you have a few things to rely on
and then something could happen like um
an important employee uh quits the
company
or an investor pulls out or whatever
let's just say something in the
operations of of life
are any of those three things not true
after that happens no they're all still
true and uh so you keep you keep going
and i think it's extremely important to
me when i like look at investing in
companies not that i do it often but to
have a couple of those like first
principles things because that
entrepreneur is going to need them
because it's going to be hard
but at least you can know that if the
configuration of this project
gets to that point
that the first principles express
themselves
then all you need to do is need is time
you need time to get to the right
configuration
and do you have
thoughts around that with
entrepreneurship so it's going to be
hard are there other things that
surprised you as you got into building
companies that you know that somebody
just starting out they won't have
thought of it yet
um
yeah i mean it's certainly it is very
hard and it's definitely it's like it's
so hard it's not even recommended like
what i don't want i don't think we need
more entrepreneurs really maybe we don't
i don't know what what is so hard about
it that makes it not recommended
it's like very lonely kind of uh you you
usually if you come so i'm always
talking about kind of venture-backed
startups i don't know what it's like to
start a restaurant or something it could
be very different but
if you're doing a technology company
usually you're talking about something
that doesn't yet exist and you're trying
to get investors employees and all kinds
of people
excited about this thing that doesn't
exist
and then
you go home after working extremely hard
and you're like oh it still doesn't
exist
and i'm just here alone
and so it's it's very hard to um
to continuously be
be kind of
[Music]
have this energy to keep to keep
something going and
with numerai i mean we've had
like there was this huge crypto crash in
2018 and
areas and
and market neutral funds have had a
really tough time
so there's been so many times where
you you would quit um
but then the last two years it's like uh
so glad we didn't quit
why didn't you quit though at the
hardest part
because i i just knew i wanted to
something i say to entrepreneurs is
don't start a company unless you're
prepared to make it your life's work
and that's gets around so many of the
problems that people have like they
might start a company in an industry
that they don't even like
because they think well i'll just do it
for two years and then i'll sell the
company oh yes i did exactly that
and uh and then it's like not long term
and it's like so if you if you have it
in your in your in your game plan that
you're going to be doing this for a long
time it changes your whole mind
you don't want to hire somebody who you
don't really like because
you know that
you might have to you know it's not
going to work and if you're expecting to
work with them for a very long time
you'll hire better people and all your
decisions will be much longer term
um we've had so many things where uh
there's so many opportunities to follow
some
some new fashion or something
and uh we've always had a lot of
resistance to anything that doesn't make
perfect sense for the long long term and
that's such a nice thing to rely on too
i think that is very smart
dude this has been so much fun where can
people follow along with you
so you can go to um
numero.ai is our website if you want to
join as a data scientist
uh you can go to numerai.fund if you
want to learn about our hedge fund
and
you can follow me on twitter
richard crabe
or
nice and easy man thank you so much for
coming on and guys dude i had so much
fun researching him i as you know i
think there's something really happening
in the world right now and the way that
he looks at it is incredibly incredibly
interesting and useful mostly done
through the lens of finance but highly
encourage you guys to check them out and
speaking of things that i highly
encourage if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary take care peace
you